Daily bias is one of the most
complicated trading concept, when in
reality all you need is one single
candle to identify the bias, where to
enter and where to target. That's what I
show you in this video, as well as what
specific candle to use. First of all,
you don't always need daily bias and
that is a mistake and misunderstanding
of daily bias.
It is just that this word has been uh
repeated by a lot of people when the
understanding is not there. So, here
we're talking about daily bias, but what
if you're using a 1-minute time frame or
15-minute time frame or hourly or
4-hour? So, if you're using the 4-hour
time frame, you don't actually need a
daily bias. It's the opposite here,
you're trading a single 4-hour candle
or, you know, a 4-hour structure. So,
daily bias meaning that I'm looking at
the bias for the day,
it's not going to be the most important
thing. And the same thing goes for the
1-minute time frame. Maybe in the
middle, yes, but on the extremes, on the
4-hour and maybe above and on the
1-minute and below, we don't need the
daily bias. It's going to be irrelevant
and there is not alignment. So, what we
need to understand is that instead of
using daily bias, we can go with bias.
And then, if we're looking at the 4-hour
time frame, we're going to be looking at
the specific bias that is aligned with
the 4-hour. And the same goes for the
1-minute time frame. So, for the
1-minute time frame as an example, I'm
going to be using the 15-minute bias
or maybe the hourly. We could be
flexible here a bit. Now, if your entry
is on the 15-minute time frame, you
would want to look for the bias of the
4-hour time frame. And that's how it
goes. For the hourly, you'll be using
the daily bias here. So, if you're using
the hourly, maybe the 15-minute, you
could be flexible here, but these are
the time frames I recommend. The hourly,
now you need the daily bias. But, would
the daily bias work with the 4-hour time
frame? If you're entering on the 4-hour
time frame, it's not going to work. So,
here you need to be dealing with the
weekly bias to enter based on the 4-hour
time frame. And here, it's all about the
alignment and you need to understand the
frequency of the trades. So, as we take
the misconception and misunderstanding
about bias to the side, all we need now
is one candle and this could be in
different time frames. But, this one
candle will give us the bias, the entry,
or at least where to enter and where to
target it. So, the concept that we'll be
using here is CCT or candle continuity
theory. I've been talking about this
concept for years now and you can go to
my oldest videos and you'll see that.
So, what is CCT? In simple terms, CCT is
trading the next candle based on the
previous one. When I have two candles as
my framework, I'll be using the current
one or the one that I have for now in
order to trade the next one. Or, you
could actually look at this also in
another way, which is how the new candle
opens in relation to the prior one. Why?
Because the opening will tell us if
we're having a continuation or reversal,
if we're going to be going bullish or
bearish. It's all based on how the
candle open. Now, just to be clear,
there is a full CCT course on its core
on my community and classes that works
actually with the edge model. So, for
more details on how to put it together,
feel free to check out the CCT course.
And the CCT types, meaning that we'll be
having two main types. The first one is
continuation. It's when we are going in
the same direction and how is that
exactly happening? We have a bullish
candle here where the high is here and
the open is here. What happened is we go
below the open price and we push higher
breaking above the high of the previous
candle. And what happened after? Now,
this is a bullish candle. Same thing, we
have the high here where we first open
lower and then we break above the high.
That is a continuation type and we'll
know exactly what is happening inside of
each candle, even on the lower time
frame. Now, the other type is reversal
and this simply happens when we have
bullish candle, but then instead of
continuing bullish same as here, what we
have is a flip or a reversal or a change
of the direction. So, notice how here
what we have is strength, meaning that
we're closing above previous candles.
And we focus a lot here on the concept
of strength and weakness. But here, we
do have weakness. We have failing to
close above. And you don't need to trade
this candle only, but you can trade this
one. Okay? Now, what happened here is we
start going higher first, but then
failing to continue higher and having a
lot of weakness here, maybe into a key
level or any condition. It could happen
in different conditions, but the main
thing is that we start going higher
first and then failing to close lower.
Most likely, we're not starting lower
first to go higher. No, we're doing the
opposite. Now, even though both are high
probability continuation and reversal,
but each one needs to be traded in its
own way. But for this video, we'll focus
more on continuation. For the reversal,
it needs to be traded in a different
way, and maybe that's for another video
or it's there in the CCT course. So, how
do we trade that? First of all, we have
this candle. This could be on any
timeframe. This could be on the daily,
on the weekly, on the 4-hour, on the
15-minute, whatever. The moment we have
this, and I'll show you which candle to
actually use because we do have a lot of
candles. So, why am I choosing this one?
We'll know that. But the first thing we
want to do is, first of all, look at the
low of the candle, but what's more
important is the high of the candle and
the most important one is the opening of
the next candle. So, simply the closing
price of this, which goes here, this is
where the candle closes, it's the
opening of the next candle. So, the next
candle almost likely, if there is no
gap, is going to open here. How does
this look on the lower timeframe? It's
something like this. But we have the
opening here, maybe going lower first,
creating the low, going higher, and we
have some structure that is inside of
the candle, reaching the high of the
candle here, and then closure below.
Now, what do we want to do is based on
this candle, we want to trade the next
one. And if this is a higher probability
candle, which we're going to be
discussing later, then what I'm looking
for is something that is specific. Is
that price needs to go below in order to
buy. And that's how this looks. Price
first goes lower, and then start going
higher, and I'm trading candle two based
on candle one's. If this is a bullish
one, we need to see a retracement first.
So, price started go lower first, you're
just going into a key level, or give me
any type of confirmation that I can
enter from. Now, after this, I'll be
looking for the continuation, so I could
enter here, maybe here, and then look
for the continuation to the upside,
trading this candle. So, the entry comes
at the creation of this week. You're
already in when this expansion happen.
So, higher time frame is going to give
us the candle bias, the opening price,
and the entry zone or range. But, the
lower time frame is going to give us the
structure, the key levels, and the
confirmation. The moment you align these
two, you have a valid trade. So, the
time frames that you need to use. If
you're using the higher time frame
candles on the weekly, then you want to
look for the confirmation and the
structure and the key levels on the
4-hour, daily goes with the 1-hour,
4-hour and 15-minute, and then hourly
15-minute with the 5-minute and
1-minute. You could be using this for
day swing trading. These are more for
day trading, and the last one is for
scalping. Now, this is the three-step
framework in order to identify a valid
trade. The first one is identify a high
probability candle, and that's what
we're going to be covering on the next
slide. And then, we wait for a
retracement below or above the opening
price into a key level. Meaning that if
I'm bullish, I want to see price
retracing below the opening price. If
we're bearish, it's going to be above
the opening price. And then, the entry
and trade management, and everyone is
going to have his own entry and trade
management. Because what matters the
most when it comes to the daily bias is
this, and then whatever trading plan or
strategy you're using, you could blend
it here when it comes to the entry and
trade management. Now, a high
probability candle, and that's what it
matters here. We need to understand not
every candle is a valid one to trade.
So, a high probability candle could be
one that reacted off a key level,
weakness or strength, or momentum. And
momentum goes the same with strength.
So, the first thing we notice here, this
is the AUD/USD on the 4-hour time frame.
CCT works a lot here, if you notice. As
we're going lower,
and then we start going higher. What
happens is we close bullish, and then
continuation here. And then the moment
we have a retracement momentum candle,
we can look for an entry here. Not every
time price is going to give us an entry,
but then we have a continuation here.
Continuation. And after this range, this
range to the upside, what happened is
going lower, we have a closure to the
upside, and then a bit of a
continuation. And notice what happened
after.
Is price going lower, going higher? So,
a break of structure here, and then this
candle give us a continuation.
And this is a high probability candle.
Now, again, what happened is price going
lower, but closing bearish, bearish,
bearish. And I know that based on the
structure,
we're bullish here. And again, I need to
make something clear that this is only
one way of finding the bias. I do have
some videos going over finding or
identifying daily bias using structure,
using candles, using moving average, a
lot of ways. But for this one, we're
applying the CCT, the candle continuity
theory, the one candle rule. We also
need to align and use structure with it.
So, if I can know that this is a break
of structure to the upside, this is
weakness. We're going to be discussing
this. I know that here,
if I zoom in, what happened is price
going lower, closing bullish, meaning
that this is a closure of a bullish
candle, aligned with structure, coming
out of a key level, having some
weakness, meaning that I could be
looking for below the opening price
for a continuation. Buying from here,
looking for this push to the upside.
Same thing, a momentum candle. Is it a
high probability one? Maybe. We look for
buying below the opening price, going
higher. Take a look at here. What
happened is we started to go higher. We
had a lot of bullish candles going
higher and you could be always buying
below the opening price, buying below
the opening price. Not every time price
is going to give you a retracement. What
I love to do is always look for the, you
know, when I'm going lower and I know
that we're starting to go bullish,
I really prefer to enter at the
beginning of the range or at the
beginning of the move, but you need to
have experience for this. And then I'm
trading all the way until here, but I'm
only entering one trade here, catching
this big move instead of entering in the
middle and catching this. But feel free
to do whatever you like. You notice how
we're bullish, so the structure is
bullish. We have this low and we start
to see some weakness. So we failed to
close below and if you know, we
understand the concept of strength and
weakness,
failing to close, that is weakness,
meaning that we could be having a
reversal. What I want to see is a
bullish candle. If I see a bullish
candle, and that bullish candle should
not do this. I want it to be here in
order to at least target maybe this high
or this level. Then in the price action,
you'll notice that here we have a
bullish candle. Mark the opening price
and then the high. Go to the 15 minute.
And there are a lot of different ways to
do this. So notice how this is the
opening price. This is the high, meaning
that I want to see price going down
first into somewhere and then buying.
Now you could be using a lot of
different methods here. So what I could
do is have an entry based on a fair
value gap, have an entry based on a
inverse fair value gap, have an entry
based on a engulfing or just bullish
candle in this case. Or I could look for
a break of structure on this direction
to the upside. These are some examples
of what we can look for in in here. Now,
it started going lower and we have price
filling a key level and then closing uh
bullish candle, okay? Now, what I prefer
to see in every trade is that I want to
see whenever we start going lower, I
want to see price having either
weakness, so failing to close
and then continuing higher, okay?
Or, a break of structure or just a
single candle that convinced me after
the weakness. So, now I can I'm not
convinced of this, even the timing is
not the best. I'll not be entering uh on
this into maybe this key level or this
key level here. That's what I see. Price
is coming into here, having some
weakness, closing higher. I could be
simply entering this on this, maybe
covering the level here, something like
this. Going to the 4-hour time frame.
What we notice is that we had this
pushed to the outside. If we go back to
the 4-hour, I could first look for this
imbalance to be filled, okay? That is
around 2.5 and then looking for this
high to be taken, but before that
looking for this key level to be
disrespected first in order to extend my
take profit to here. So, that's the
alignment. Now, going back to the
15-minute time frame and all that I want
to see is the alignment going higher.
So, we start going lower first into the
level that I was looking at exactly and
then price just pushed higher. Now,
going back to the 4-hour and I want to
show you something that first of all,
not every candle is going to be
tradeable, okay? Playing the price
action, we notice here that we start
going lower, going lower here, it did
not give any entry, but now we can see
that we have a change in the direction.
So, notice how we're moving higher. Now,
we do have a break of structure to the
downside and then creating a low here.
Playing the price action, notice how
we're starting to go higher and higher,
but into where? Into this range. This is
a high probability range and I want to
see a continuation to the downside from
it, at least breaking this low. Notice
how we're still closing bullish and now
we close bearish. Is this a good candle?
Yes, we had a lot of weakness here, so
weakness
and weakness into an imbalance with the
structure. So, this is a high
probability candle. All what I want to
do now, have an entry based on this
candle into this high and maybe just the
50% of the range. 50% of the range is
here, I could take this as my first
target. If you notice, we're going
lower, that's the opening price. What I
want to see is price to go higher in
order to continue lower. And I know that
this retracement is nothing but an entry
opportunity to me to continue in the
same direction. That is what CCT is all
about. It's looking for the continuation
or even the reversal of that previous
candle. Because now I know that this is
a continuation, I'll be looking for the
continuation. If it was a reversal, I'd
be more leaning toward reversals. A
reversal actually gives a huge reward to
risk. We're going lower, okay, and now
we go higher, but now we have some
weakness. So, you notice this bullish
candle had some weakness here. We now
have a bearish candle. So, this is a
bearish candle and a lot of time for me
it's enough. You could be having an
entry from here. Stop loss about this.
As we said, 50% of the range was maybe
somewhere around here. That is already
huge when it comes to the reward to
risk. If you're not entering based on
this, but you go lower, that is a break
of structure, you could look for the
continuation here. That is another
method. Now, playing the price action,
notice how we do have a break of
structure, you could look for, you know,
place a limit order somewhere in here
and that's where price actually
came back to. And now, notice what
happened.
We shall go lower, I'd be close to that,
going lower. And now, if we look at the
4-hour time frame, this was
continuation, You could have another
continuation here because you know that
you're trading with a structure. So, now
you could
enter another continuation based on
this. So, now this is the opening price.
This is where
uh the candle close. Price goes higher
and then go a lower. We could enter. So,
price goes higher, higher, and then
lower. Now, not every time this is going
to be valid, but if this candle is a
high probability one and is reacting off
your key level, you could be entering
based on this.
For me and based on some key levels that
we use in It's Cool, okay? This here,
this is reacting off a key level.
Shorting here.
Stop loss above this. And we're also
aligned with a continuation framework.
We could be first targeting this low
and then continuing all the way down
here.
Playing the price action.
Huge one going lower.
That is what CCT is all about. Now, I
could look for this another time.
Another candle here. I could have
another CCT here.
And have an entry when it's valid. Now,
this is a bullish candle. Would I trade
this one? Not really because I know that
my structure is not aligned and this is
not a high probability candle. And then
you see, it flips lower back into this
level and going lower. And finally, we
hit the take profit. This is a huge 12
to 1. And that's how you trade CCT.
That's how you find your bias. Now, you
could do this on the daily. Bearish
candle going lower. Bullish candle
continuing higher. And based on the
structure, going lower, closing higher,
meaning continuation to the upside.
That's it for today's video. Thank you
for watching. Feel free to check out
It's Cool if you want to have access to
the CCT course, the full course, and the
Ichimoku and how to blend them together.
If that's something that you're
interested in, hit the like button and
subscribe to the channel. That's it and
I'll see you next one.